# Risk-Analysis-For-World-Vision
## About World Vision
### With the support of our fellow Canadians, we focus on helping the most vulnerable children overcome poverty and experience fullness of life. We help children of all backgrounds, even in the most dangerous places, inspired by our Christian faith. Together we can protect children today, and empower them for tomorrow.
## Background
### There are two risk management processes that run in parallel; country and project specific. The country risk management evaluates the risk of the World Vision country office as a whole and how they execute projects. It is not necessarily based on any specific project but evaluates the office in its entirety. It does not evaluate external factors (political, social, environmental) that may impact delivery of programming. The current process includes an excel based tool where program managers assess various thematic risks; audits, reporting, evaluations, strategic engagement, local partnerships, and programmatic capacity. 29 indicators are filled out on a quarterly basis. Project specific risk management only focuses on grants we receive from governments as these are contractual and bear higher risk as a result. There is a monthly checklist that must be completed by the program manager in this case. The current risks assessed focus on relationships (with the donor, partners), compliance (financial, workplan, contracts), program quality (project management framework, staffing), learning (monitoring and evaluation system) and operational context (grant risk register, staff safety and security, project safeguarding and grant specific indicators). In total there are 57 indicators each grant manager must respond to on a monthly basis.
## Challenge Design Process
### Evaluation of solutions will be based on 1) ability to produce results that identify current future potential project program level risks 2) provides end users with a faster and automated approach to evaluate programmatic risk.
